docs/src/about.md, before:


Hello! My name is Victor, I'm the author of this project. You can find contact
info on [my personal website](https://victorpoughon.fr). Feel free to reach out 😊

## The origin of this project

The origin of this project is double:

### I wanted to learn Optics

I have been teaching myself optics, and I've been sometimes frustrated by
approximations and general lack of rigor in the way the field is being taught.
As someone with a strong software background, but a total noob in optics,
approximations like sin(x) = x seem to make sense if you're Isaac Newton
designing a telescope with pen and paper in the 17th century, but today I think
non linear optimization has gotten so remarkably powerful that we should start
there. Teaching optics with ideal equations like 1/u + 1/v = 1/f or the lens
maker equation that are never true in real life is in my opinion misleading. At
least to me it was super confusing until I let go of it and embraced the non
linearity of Snell's law! In my opinion, those equations should be presented as
the over-simplified approximate but historically useful model that they are, not
as Chapter 1 of how lenses work. It's not! Spherical aberration is not part of
physics, it's part of engineering. It's a consequence of solving a non linear
system too approximately!

Also, I strongly believe that you only truly understand something once
you've programmed a computer to do it. I am fascinated by optics, and _Torch
Lens Maker_ is a learning project for me. Every time I add a new feature it
deepens my understanding of the physics of it. For example, what is an image? I
know what an image is for a computer, it's a 2D grid of pixel data... right?
Yeah sure, but in optics it's totally different! I have not yet found an optics
textbook that satisfyingly defines what an image is. The best I got was in a Khan
Academy video where it was said "an image is where rays of light converge".
Still, I think it's more subtle than that (sometimes they don't converge, and
still an image is formed)!

### Recurse Center

In Winter 2024, I attended the [Recurse Center](https://www.recurse.com/), a
technical retreat for programmers. At the Recurse Center, you become a better
programmer by working at the edge of your abilities, learning generously and
working on your own projects. _Torch Lens Maker_ was my main project during my
batch, and I was able to work on it full time for 12 weeks, making great
progress and having great fun! Now that my batch has ended, I'm looking for a
way to keep working on it because I believe it has great potential. I don't want
all lenses in the future to be designed with 5 figures closed-source commercial
software, we can do better! Look at how machine learning enjoys state of the art
open-source tooling. Let's do the same for optics!

## Funding

I've been working on this project for a few months now on my own time. I'd love
to keep working on it as much as possible!

I am looking for sponsorship, contracting or donations to be able to keep
working on this project. If you are interested in sponsoring open-source
development of Torch Lens Maker, please reach out or make a donation! Thank
you!

You can find contact info on [my personal website](https://victorpoughon.fr/).

## Mailing List

## Roadmap

Commit message:

docs: update index and about pages

docs/src/about.md, after:

# About

Hello! My name is Victor, I'm the author of this project. You can find contact
info on [my personal website](https://victorpoughon.fr). Feel free to reach out 😊

## The origin of this project

The origin of this project is double:

### I wanted to learn Optics

I have been teaching myself optics, and I've been sometimes frustrated by
approximations and general lack of rigor in the way the field is being taught.
As someone with a strong software background, but a total noob in optics,
approximations like sin(x) = x seem to make sense if you're Isaac Newton
designing a telescope with pen and paper in the 17th century, but today I think
non linear optimization has gotten so remarkably powerful that we should start
there. Teaching optics with ideal equations like 1/u + 1/v = 1/f or the lens
maker equation that are never true in real life is in my opinion misleading. At
least to me it was super confusing until I let go of it and embraced the non
linearity of Snell's law! In my opinion, those equations should be presented as
the over-simplified approximate but historically useful model that they are, not
as Chapter 1 of how lenses work. It's not! Spherical aberration is not part of
physics, it's part of engineering. It's a consequence of solving a non linear
system too approximately!

Also, I strongly believe that you only truly understand something once
you've programmed a computer to do it. I am fascinated by optics, and _Torch
Lens Maker_ is a learning project for me. Every time I add a new feature it
deepens my understanding of the physics of it. For example, what is an image? I
know what an image is for a computer, it's a 2D grid of pixel data... right?
Yeah sure, but in optics it's totally different! I have not yet found an optics
textbook that satisfyingly defines what an image is. The best I got was in a Khan
Academy video where it was said "an image is where rays of light converge".
Still, I think it's more subtle than that (sometimes they don't converge, and
still an image is formed)!

### Recurse Center

In Winter 2024, I attended the [Recurse Center](https://www.recurse.com/), a
technical retreat for programmers. At the Recurse Center, you become a better
programmer by working at the edge of your abilities, learning generously and
working on your own projects. _Torch Lens Maker_ was my main project during my
batch, and I was able to work on it full time for 12 weeks, making great
progress and having great fun! Now that my batch has ended, I'm looking for a
way to keep working on it because I believe it has great potential. I don't want
all lenses in the future to be designed with 5 figures closed-source commercial
software, we can do better! Look at how machine learning enjoys state of the art
open-source tooling. Let's do the same for optics!

## Funding

I've been working on this project for a few months now on my own time. I'd love
to keep working on it as much as possible!

I am looking for sponsorship, contracting or donations to be able to keep
working on this project. If you are interested in sponsoring open-source
development of Torch Lens Maker, please reach out or make a donation! Thank
you!

* [Sponsor Torch Lens Maker on GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/victorpoughon)
* [Buy me a coffee](https://buymeacoffee.com/victorpoughon)

You can also find personal contact info on [my website](https://victorpoughon.fr/).
Feel free to reach out 😊

## Mailing List

## Roadmap
